VPC NAT UI screenshots and Guest cluster using Overlay Networks (#1085)
harvester/docs: docs/rancher/guest-cluster-overlay-network.md

---
sidebar_position: 11
sidebar_label: Guest Cluster using Overlay Network

> title: "Guest Cluster using Overlay Network"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Guest Cluster Provisioning Using Underlay and Overlay Networks"
```

Reviewer: If this title is appropriate, we can shorten it for the sidebar.

keywords:
  - Harvester
  - Rancher
  - KubeOVN
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.9/rancher/guest-cluster-overlay-network"/>
</head>

> ## Provisioning Downstream Kubernetes Clusters on Harvester Using Rancher and Kube-OVN Networking

Reviewer: The subject of the page must be reflected in the title. This heading is not necessary. Please remove it.

### Introduction

Rancher provides centralized management for Kubernetes clusters across multiple environments. When integrated with Harvester, Rancher can provision downstream Kubernetes clusters directly on virtual machine infrastructure managed by Harvester.

Using the Harvester Node Driver, Rancher automatically creates virtual machines that serve as Kubernetes control plane and worker nodes. This simplifies cluster deployment and lifecycle management by providing a single interface for infrastructure and Kubernetes operations.

> While downstream clusters can use traditional VM networking, they can also use Kube-OVN overlay or underlay networking to provide a flexible and Kubernetes-native networking model for workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rancher provides centralized management for Kubernetes clusters across multiple environments. When integrated with Harvester, Rancher can provision guest Kubernetes clusters directly on virtual machine infrastructure managed by Harvester.

Using the Harvester Node Driver, Rancher automatically creates virtual machines that serve as control plane and worker nodes. This simplifies cluster deployment and lifecycle management by providing a single interface for infrastructure and Kubernetes operations.

While guest clusters can use traditional virtual machine networking, they can also leverage Kube-OVN overlay or underlay networking to provide a flexible and Kubernetes-native networking model for workloads.
```

### Guest Clusters from KubeOVN Underlay Network

Deploying guest clusters on Kube-OVN Pure Underlay Networks is functionally similar to using traditional VM VLAN networks, but with the added advantages of Kube-OVN features including Network Policies and tenant-isolated VPCs.

> Setup the underlay infrastructure [Create an underlay network](../networking/kubeovn-pureunderlay.md#underlay-configuration) to create guest clusters VMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guest Cluster Deployment on Underlay Network

Deploying guest clusters on pure underlay networks is functionally similar to using traditional virtual machine VLAN networks, but with the added advantages of Kube-OVN features such as network policies and tenant-isolated VPCs.

For information about setting up the overlay infrastructure, see [Create an underlay network](../networking/kubeovn-pureunderlay.md#underlay-configuration).
```

### Guest Clusters from KubeOVN Overlay Network

TThis requires configuring a VPC NAT Gateway to provide inbound and outbound connectivity for the VM nodes through DNAT and SNAT.

Setup the overlay infrastructure [Create a VPC NAT Gateway](../networking/kubeovn-vpcnatgateway.md#kubeovn-as-secondary-cni) to create guest clusters VMs.

#### Architecture

* Harvester provides the virtual machine infrastructure for Kubernetes control plane and worker nodes.
* Rancher provisions and manages the lifecycle of the guest cluster.
* Kube-OVN provides networking within the guest cluster using overlay tunnels between Kubernetes nodes.
* Pod communication is encapsulated and transported across the overlay network connecting the Kubernetes nodes.

#### Benefits of Using Kube-OVN overlay network

> Kube-OVN overlay networking enables downstream Kubernetes clusters to manage pod networking independently of the underlying Harvester infrastructure network. This simplifies cluster deployment, reduces dependence on physical network configuration, allows clusters to scale without additional VLAN planning, and provides a consistent networking model across environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guest Cluster Deployment on Overlay Network

Deploying guest clusters on overlay networks requires configuring a VPC NAT gateway to provide inbound and outbound connectivity to the virtual machines through DNAT and SNAT.

The key architectural features are as follows:

- Harvester provides the virtual machine infrastructure for the guest cluster's control plane and worker nodes.
- Rancher provisions and manages the lifecycle of the guest cluster.
- Kube-OVN provides networking within the guest cluster using overlay tunnels between the guest nodes.
- Pod communication is encapsulated and transported across the overlay network connecting the guest nodes.

Kube-OVN overlay networking enables guest clusters to manage pod networking independently of the underlying Harvester infrastructure network. This provides the following operational benefits:

- Simplified cluster deployment
- Reduced dependence on physical network configuration
- Dynamic cluster scaling without additional VLAN planning
- Consistent networking model across environments

For information about setting up the overlay infrastructure, see [Create a VPC NAT Gateway](../networking/kubeovn-vpcnatgateway.md#kubeovn-as-secondary-cni).
```

### Provisioning Steps

#### Importing Harvester into Rancher

Harvester clusters are imported through Rancher's Virtualization Management interface.

After importing:

- Rancher recognizes the cluster as a Harvester provider.
- Virtual machine resources become available through Rancher.
- Harvester can be selected as an infrastructure provider when creating downstream clusters.

> For detailed import procedures, refer to: [Harvester Virtualization Management](./virtualization-management.md#importing-harvester-cluster)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guest Cluster Provisioning

### Importing Harvester Clusters into Rancher

Harvester clusters are imported through Rancher's **Virtualization Management** interface.

The following occur after a Harvester cluster is imported:

- Rancher recognizes the cluster as a Harvester provider.
- Virtual machine resources become available through Rancher.
- Harvester can be selected as an infrastructure provider when creating downstream clusters.

For detailed instructions, see [Importing Harvester Cluster](./virtualization-management.md#importing-harvester-cluster).
```

#### Provisioning a Downstream Kubernetes Cluster

Rancher uses the Harvester Node Driver to automatically provision the required virtual machines and bootstrap Kubernetes on them.

For detailed downstream cluster create procedures, refer to: [Harvester Node Driver](./node/rke2-cluster.md)

> - Under the Network Name use KubeOVN's overlay or underlay network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Provisioning a Guest Cluster

Rancher uses the Harvester Node Driver to automatically provision the required virtual machines and bootstrap Kubernetes on them.

For detailed instructions, see [Harvester Node Driver](./node/rke2-cluster.md).

:::info important

In the **Networks** section of the cluster creation screen, you must specify the correct underlay or overlay network.

:::
```
